# My first project used for learning python!

First things first, I realize that the python scripts in this repository have a lot of issues and I am sure there are better ways of achieving the same result. 
That being said, I am quite happy with the result. I learned a few things, visited Stackoverflow numerous times and, perhaps most importantly, achieved the main goals of this project.

# The goals

The following project was created with two goals in mind: familiarizing myself with programming in Python and solving a real problem. The former is obivious, but what was the problem?

There's this service called PS Plus Extra which gives you access to selected games on PS4 and PS5. The list of games can be checked here: https://www.playstation.com/pl-pl/ps-plus/games/
It's a really pretty site, however, it simply lists the games in A-Z order and provides hiperlinks to the PS Store - quite basic. 
As a way to learn Python, I decided to create some kind of a tool that would combine this information and add the Opencritic score for each game and add it's game time from How Long to Beat.

# The method

As of now, I have no idea how APIs work and I am not familiar with numerous Python concepts/libraries, so... I went for the most accessible (I think) solution: webscraping.
I visited Stackoverflow quite often, read a bit about BeautifulSoup, Pandas, RegEx, HTML and wrote two Python programs.

Basic_info.py - this one gathers basic info about each game in PS Extra, if possible (not every game has a score for example), from OpenCritic (https://opencritic.com/) and generates a csv file.
Game_time.py - this one looks for the time required to beat each game from the PS Extra, a game's length is taken from this site:https://howlongtobeat.com/, and merges it with the file generated by basic_info.py

# The result

As a final step, I decided to generate a Google Looker report with the gathered information. It's not perfect, as it was my first time using this service, however, you can check it here:
https://lookerstudio.google.com/embed/reporting/351a79c8-4af9-4cf8-bece-dc0cb2ed545c/page/TwWZD

